This video is going to talk about who
you should hire as your agency grows and
when. And I know this is a valuable
question because I get this about 10 to
20 times per week from agency owners who
I consult with and who ask me for
advice. If you don't know who I am, my
name is Matthew Larson. I have grown and
sold three marketing agencies in the
past 12 years, and I currently consult
with about 550 agency owners every
single month. So, in the video ahead,
I'm going to go over step by step who I
think you should hire, when you should
hire them, and what benchmarks to tie it
to. Because in my experience, a lot of
this is going to be benchmark based as
opposed to get to a certain revenue
level and then you do this. So, let's
get right into it. The first thing and
the very first hire that I think we need
to make is going to be a virtual
assistant or just a regular assistant.
And you're going to want to do that as
soon as your bills are basically able to
be taken care of. So, as soon as you can
pay for your food, as soon as you can
pay for your rent, as soon as you can
pay for your insurance and whatever you
need to do, then you hire a VA to
basically buy back 10 to 20 hours per
week doing repetitive tasks that you
probably shouldn't do yourself. This has
to do with like uploading wins, you
know, scheduling tweets, doing all of
that kind of admin work that you as an
agency owner really should not be doing.
By the time you get to your VA and the
time you hire someone to be your
director of marketing, you're probably
going to need somewhere between two and
three hires there. So, after you've
hired your VA, basically what you're
going to be doing is you're going to be
hiring a new person every time you're at
70% capacity. So, if you could do
basically, what would that be? If you
could do 10 clients yourself, as soon as
you basically have seven clients, that
is when you're going to want to start
hiring someone because you don't want to
rush that at all. I have my own hiring
process that I'll talk about in a
different video perhaps. But you keep
repeating this process usually until you
get two to three hires. So, if you can
do 10 and some one of your employees can
do 10, then as soon as you have 14
clients, you would hire the next person.
And this is a very good balance between
you being able to grow and get new
clients and getting an early start
without getting the hire too early where
you're kind of just wasting time and
revenue. So the first one is the VA and
then the hires. And then once you get to
about $50,000 in MR, recurring revenue,
that is when you're going to want to
hire your director of
operations. So this on the list is
actually going to be one of two hires
that is actually revenue specific. And I
like to do it at $50,000 MR, not
revenue, because we need MR because it's
predictable. Because at that stage, you
can afford someone to basically pay
$10,000 per month, 120K per year, who is
going to be managing all of your
employees and completely get you, the
founder, out of operations so you can do
marketing and sales. Most people kind of
stumble at this point because they just
can't think and they don't want to give
up enough margin to actually do this
because your profit and your take-home
is going to go down temporarily, but
it's going to go up faster and higher
than you ever thought possible once your
more time is spent on marketing and
sales. The next hire you're going to
make is a sales rep. And you're going to
want to do that as soon as you start
consistently booking about 25 calls per
week. Before you hire the sales rep,
you're going to be taking all those
calls and it's going to be about five
calls per day. I don't like to give
myself or my sales reps more than five
calls per day because they're very
mentally taxing. If you do more than
five calls per day, you're not really
going to have any time to do your cold
email, your content, your paid ads, and
all the other stuff that you need to do.
And when you hire this person, you're
not just going to want to, okay,
transfer all of those calls to them.
What you're really going to want to do
is you're going to want to take about
you're going to want to keep taking
those 25 calls yourself and you're going
to want to because your marketing
efforts and your paid ads and your
content, your outreach are going to be
scaling up. You're going to get more
than 25 calls. So for the first month, I
would say let's say you get 32 calls.
You're going to take 25, they're going
to take seven. The next month you get 40
calls. Now you take 25 and they take 15.
And then once you basically get to that
magic number of about 40 to 50 calls
between the two of you, that's when you
start hiring the next person. And then
once you hire two sales reps, you'll be
out of sales or kind of completely, but
we'll get back to that later in the
video. The next person you want to hire
is an appointment setter. Once you have
cold email running and basically you
need someone to sit there in your inbox
and reply as fast as possible and or
you're getting at least 10 leads per
week and that's applications or calls.
That's not really optins. Whichever ones
happens first is when you want to hire
this appointment setter.
The next thing you want to do, in my
opinion, and this might be controversial
to some people, but you want to get a
thumbnail person and an editor after you
have posted 100 YouTube videos. So, I
always recommend at the start you post
one video every single day and just have
bullet points to talk off of and just
try to make every video better than the
last. And you need to do this journey
and you need to do this part because if
you're relying too heavily on script and
editing, you're not actually in most
cases developing the skill of actually
making videos that people want to watch.
So for the first 100 videos, seven per
day, it's going to take you, you know,
what would that be? 12, 10, 12, 13. It's
about 14 to 15 weeks. You're going to be
posting a video every day. you're now
out of your operations and you have all
of this time on your hands and you're
able to do that and once you're done do
that then start scripting then start
making thumbnails then do titles. So
that kind of wraps up the early stages
of what I would say are your initial
hires. So to recap a VA as soon as we
have time and money for our expenses. As
soon as we kind of hit 70% capacity
we're going to start wanting to hire a
fulfillment team. And you know, once you
hire the first person, you can have more
capacity. Then the second person, more
capacity, and the third person, more
capacity. And usually, this will get you
to about $50,000 in terms of MR, monthly
recurring revenue. At that point, you
want to hire your director of operations
and get yourself out of the business
operations
completely. When you have all of that
free time, you're going to spend it on
paid ads, content, outreach, promotion,
partnerships, all that kind of stuff.
You're going to be able to generate a
lot more sales calls. And as soon as
you're consistently booking about 25
sales calls per week, that's when you
start doing your sales reps and hiring
those. Then you're also going to be
having all this time to do YouTube
videos. I'd recommend just talking and
talking and talking and building YouTube
videos for a laser specific audience
every single day for 14 to 15 weeks so
you get a 100 videos as fast as
possible. And that's when you get your
editor and your thumbnail.
The next phase of the business is kind
of to get yourself out of all of the
operations as much as possible out of
the operations and more into the CEO and
owner role. So you basically need to
make two very specific hires in this
phase. And to give you kind of a revenue
range, it's not really revenue specific,
but this is going to be in
the 50 to 200k per month range. So, what
you want to do is once you have ads that
are profitable, that you found out the
funnel, you found out the creatives,
it's working, it's booking calls
yourself, once you have a cold outreach
system that actually works with the
appointment setter and the sales rep's
closing, and once you have all of this
content posted on a regular basis, that
is when you hire your director of
marketing. Most people get this
completely backwards and they hire the
director of marketing to basically do
this. Those things are really a seauite
a founder role. To some degree you can't
expect someone who is even you know
three to five years experience to come
in cold figure out your ad funnel record
all the ads figure out your cold email
copy and offer figure out your content
schedule what works best all the
workflows. They can manage that they can
grow that they can scale that. But that
is something that you have to do as the
founder. And you shouldn't be hiring
that director of marketing until you
have gotten those three key results.
Paid ads are profitable in booking
calls. Cold emails working booking calls
and content is being posted regularly on
YouTube, on LinkedIn, on Twitter, on
Instagram, on Facebook, and all of that
kind of
stuff. The next hire is the director of
sales, and you're going to want to do
that once you have four people on your
sales team. And this will completely get
you out of sales. So if we do that 25
calls per week per sales rep and we
basically are hiring at 70% capacity
once we've basically repeated that
process four times and we have four
sales reps probably doing you know about
100 calls per week 70 to 100 that is
when we need to hire the director of
sales and that person's going to be
coaching our sales reps call recordings
taking some calls themselves recruiting
new salespeople and just basically
managing and trying to optimize our
sales process and that Basically at this
stage we are completely out of
operations. We're completely out of our
marketing and we're completely out of
our sales. And then as a CEO or the
founder of the business, we are kind of
in that CEO/Founder role where we have
time to basically make systems, further
promote the business, film YouTube
videos, and just focus on growth kind of
uninterrupted.
Then by the time that in my opinion you
cross the $3 million per year mark, you
are going to basically between the time
you get your director of sales and you
get your director of marketing and you
have your director of operation. Between
the time that that is true, you have all
those people and you get to 3 million,
you really need to get the CFO, the COO,
the CMO, and the CRO, which is the chief
revenue officer roles 100% dialed in.
And those are roles that I would
consider to be above all of the
directors that we've done so far. You
can either promote that director, but
then you'll need to replace them, or you
can hire someone above them. When you're
hiring these people, I normally try to
hire someone who has done three times as
big as I have. So, if I'm at 3 million
per year, let's say, I'm trying to hire
people who have done that at a $9
million per year agency. Anything less,
they're kind of maybe don't know enough
to help you get where you want to go.
And any higher than that is they're kind
of too far out of or too far like out of
touch with the problems and the
situations you're at right now. If you
hired someone who was a COO at a $und00
million per year agency for your $3
million per year agency, just wouldn't
really make much sense to them. They'd
actually probably be less effective than
someone who just left a 9 to10 million
peer agency just because their daily
tasks, their experience, their problems,
their solutions are just too big for
what you're trying to go. And then when
you get to that 10 million year mark,
you look for someone at 30 million per
year and then that 30 million, that 90
to 100 million a year or so on. I've
never really got to the 90 or 100
million or even the $30 million per year
agency mark yet. The most I've ever got
was just over 10. So, I don't really
know, but that's what I imagine I would
do. So, that's really it in terms of
hiring. It's mostly based on objectives
as opposed to actual, you know, revenue
levels. There are some revenue levels
where you have to do and you're really
not going to get past that $3 million
per year mark without a real executive
team. But I hope this video was valuable
and I will see you in the next